5.16 Release notes (#2004)
sensu/sensu-docs: content/sensu-go/5.16/release-notes.md

**December 16, 2019** &mdash; The latest release of Sensu Go, version 5.16.0, is now available for download.

**IMPORTANT:**

- The backend is no longer seeded with a default admin username and password. Users will need to [run 'sensu-backend init'][102] on every new installation and specify an admin username and password.

**NEW FEATURES:**

- ([Commercial feature][105]) Users can now authenticate with OIDC in the dashboard.
- ([Commercial feature][105]) Label selectors now match the event's check and entity labels.
- Added a new flag,`--etcd-client-urls`, which should be used with sensu-backend when it is not operating as an etcd member. The flag is also used by the new `sensu-backend init` subcommand.
- Added the ['sensu-backend init' subcommand][102].
- Added the [`--etcd-discovery`][100] and [`--etcd-discovery-srv`][100] flags to sensu-backend, which allow users to take advantage of the embedded etcd's auto-discovery features.
- Added [`--keepalive-critical-timeout`][101] to define the time after which a critical keepalive event should be created for an agent and [`--keepalive-warning-timeout`][101], which is an alias of `--keepalive-timeout` for backward compatibility.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

---

## 5.16.0 release notes

> **December 11, 2019** &mdash; The latest release of Sensu Go, version 5.16.0, is now available for download.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**December 12, 2019** &mdash; The latest release of Sensu Go, version 5.16.0, is now available for download.
```

Author: I'll hold off on this until the release date is firmed up.

Reviewer: Good point 👍

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is another important release, with many new features, improvements, and fixes. We introduced an initialization subcommand for **new** installations that allows you to specify an admin username and password instead of using a pre-defined default. We also added new backend flags to help you take advantage of etcd auto-discovery features and agent flags you can use to define a timeout period for critical and warning keepalive events.

New web UI features include a switcher that makes it easier to switch between namespaces in the dashboard, breadcrumbs on every page, OIDC authentication in the dashboard, a drawer that replaces the app bar to make more room for content, and more.

We also fixed issues with `sensuctl dump` and `sensuctl cluster health`, installing sensuctl commands via Bonsai, and missing namespaces in keepalive events and events created through the agent socket interface.

See the [upgrade guide][1] to upgrade Sensu to version 5.16.0.
```

**IMPORTANT:**

> - The backend will no longer automatically be seeded with a default admin username and password. Users will need to run 'sensu-backend init' on every new installation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The backend is no longer seeded with a default admin username and password. Users will need to [run 'sensu-backend init'][102] on every new installation and specify an admin username and password.
```

**NEW FEATURES:**

> - ([Commercial feature][95]) Added ability to authenticate with OIDC in the dashboard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ([Commercial feature][105]) Users can now authenticate with OIDC in the dashboard.
```

> - ([Commercial feature][95]) Label selectors now match the event's check & entity labels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ([Commercial feature][105]) Label selectors now match the event's check and entity labels.
```

> - Added a new flag,`--etcd-client-urls`, which should be used with sensu-backend when it is not operating as an etcd member. The flag is also used by the new sensu-backend init tool.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added a new flag,`--etcd-client-urls`, which should be used with sensu-backend when it is not operating as an etcd member. The flag is also used by the new `sensu-backend init` subcommand.
```

> - Added the 'sensu-backend init' subcommand.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added the ['sensu-backend init' subcommand][102].
```

> - Added the [`--etcd-discovery`][100] and [`--etcd-discovery-srv`][100] flags to sensu-backend. These are used to take advantage of the embedded etcd's auto-discovery features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added the [`--etcd-discovery`][100] and [`--etcd-discovery-srv`][100] flags to sensu-backend, which allow users to take advantage of the embedded etcd's auto-discovery features.
```

> - Added [`--keepalive-critical-timeout`][101] to define the time after which a critical keepalive event should be created for an agent.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Added [`--keepalive-critical-timeout`][101] to define the time after which a critical keepalive event should be created for an agent and [`--keepalive-warning-timeout`][101], which is an alias of `--keepalive-timeout` for backward compatibility.
```

> - Added [`--keepalive-warning-timeout`][101] which is an alias of `--keepalive-timeout` for backwards compatibility.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> **SECURITY:**

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

**SECURITY:**

**IMPROVEMENTS:**

> - ([Commercial feature][95]) The entity limit warning message is now displayed less aggressively and the warning threshold is proportional to the entity limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ([Commercial feature][105]) The entity limit warning message is now displayed less aggressively and the warning threshold is proportional to the entity limit.
```

> - Within the dashboard switching namespaces is easier with the new switcher. The new component can be accessed from the drawer or with the shortcut ctrl+k. For those with many namespaces the switcher now includes fuzzy search and improved keyboard navigation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A new switcher in the [web UI][103] makes it easier to switch namespaces in the dashboard. Access the new component from the drawer or with the shortcut ctrl+k. For users who have many namespaces, the switcher now includes fuzzy search and improved keyboard navigation.
```

> - The app bar has been replaced by an omnipresent drawer increasing the available space for content. Additionally, each page now includes breadcrumbs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In the [web UI][103], replaced the app bar with an omnipresent drawer to increase the available space for content. Each page also now includes breadcrumbs.
- In the [Sensu documentation][104], links now point to the version of the product being run instead of the latest, which may be helpful when running an older version of Sensu.
```

**FIXES:**

> - Show the correct default value for the format flag in sensuctl dump help usage.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `sensuctl dump` help now shows the correct default value for the format flag.
```

- Installing sensuctl commands via Bonsai will now check for correct labels before checking if the asset has 1 or more builds.

> - Listing assets with no results returns an empty array.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Listing assets with no results now returns an empty array.
```

- Fixed a panic that could occur when creating resources in a namespace that does not exist.

> - Fixed issue where keepalive events and events created through the agent's socket interface could be missing a namespace.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue where keepalive events and events created through the agent's socket interface could be missing a namespace.
```

> - Fixed an issue where 'sensuctl cluster health' would hang indefinitely.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Fixed an issue that could cause 'sensuctl cluster health' to hang indefinitely.
```

> - The `agent.yml.example` file shipped with Sensu Agent for Windows packages now uses DOS-style line endings.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ([Commercial feature][105]) The `agent.yml.example` file shipped with Sensu Agent for Windows packages now uses DOS-style line endings.
```

[97]: https://bonsai.sensu.io/assets/sensu/sensu-servicenow-handler/
[98]: https://bonsai.sensu.io/assets/sensu/sensu-jira-handler/
[99]: /sensu-go/5.2/getting-started/enterprise/
[100]: /sensu-go/5.16/reference/backend/#datastore-and-cluster-configuration-flags

> [101]: /sensu-go/5.16/reference/agent/#keepalive-configuration-flags

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[101]: /sensu-go/5.16/reference/agent/#keepalive-configuration-flags
[102]: /sensu-go/5.16/reference/backend/#initialization
[103]: /sensu-go/5.16/dashboard/overview
[104]: /sensu-go/5.16/
[105[: /sensu-go/5.16/getting-started/enterprise/
```
